{
  "summary": "I watched them arrive at Cloud City, noting the lockdown was already in place. The Ugnaught Parliament had already issued its warning, a predictable move to deter interference. Their first significant choice came quickly, at the dock. They chose to pay the bribe. It cleared their path without incident, certainly, avoiding an immediate conflict that might have drawn unwanted attention. Reyla Sun made a note of not loving what they became to make it cheap, which suggests an awareness of the cost, even for a simple transaction. The alternative, a direct confrontation, would have been messier, perhaps costlier in other ways. But this path, while efficient, also reinforced the very system of petty corruption they were trying to navigate around. I made a note of their subsequent alliance with Fyren and Krygg, the Ugnaught administrators who revealed Varga’s true operations. This industrial connection is still unfolding; I am watching to see what it fully yields.\n\nI then observed them at Refinery Platform 13. This was a more direct engagement, a physical intervention to stop the gas theft. They succeeded, gaining intel from the Trandoshan leader’s datapad about the *Shackles of Nizon* and Imperial deliveries. This was a clear gain of information, a disruption of Varga’s supply chain. The cost was direct exposure, a clear mark left on the operation. This shift from paying off a gatekeeper to actively disrupting a physical operation marked a distinct escalation. My attention then turned to the Sabacc tournament, where Lt. Armen Arandis was expected to make a payment to Lady Mirana Fioro. Varth’s intel on Inquisitor Draco’s flagship, the *Assiduous*, arriving, introduced a new kind of pressure. This infiltration is still in progress, and the stakes are clearly rising.\n\nAfter the refinery, I marked another choice: they chose to cut them loose. The crew argued for an hour after, Old Pike noted. This decision, to release whoever they had captured or contained, saved them the complication of prisoners, avoiding a prolonged engagement or the need to dispose of evidence. It allowed them to move quickly. But it also meant foregoing potential leverage, or perhaps allowing a threat to return. The argument itself was revealing, highlighting a friction within the crew about their methods, about where they draw their lines. Some clearly favored a different outcome, a more decisive resolution, while others prioritized expediency. I also made a note of Old Pike’s uneasy sleep, and the voice he heard in the corridor. He did not place it. He often hears things others do not.\n\nI am still turning over the balance they strike between speed and thoroughness, between avoiding conflict and engaging it directly. The Sabacc game will be another test of their ability to navigate a delicate environment under increasing pressure. I am watching to see how the arrival of the *Assiduous* changes their calculus, and what new choices that pressure point will reveal about their true priorities.